add first tutorial on DataHub (#403)
EGI-Federation/documentation: content/en/users/tutorials/vm-datahub/_index.md

---

> title: "Virtual machine with DataHub access"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Access DataHub from a Virtual machine"
```

> linkTitle: "VM with DataHub access"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

type: docs
weight: 30
description: >
  Use data in EGI DataHub from a virtual machine
---

## Overview

> This tutorial describes the access to [EGI DataHub](../../datahub) spaces from a virtual
> machine. In the following paragraphs you will learn how to access data remotely stored in EGI DataHub via POSIX, by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial describes the access to [EGI DataHub](../../datahub) spaces
from a virtual machine. In the following paragraphs you will learn how to
access data remotely stored in EGI DataHub like if they were local, using
traditional POSIX command line commands, by:
```

> - installing the oneclient component
> - configuring access to an EGI DataHub Oneprovider via oneclient

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- installing the `oneclient` component
- configuring access to an EGI DataHub Oneprovider via `oneclient`
```

## Prerequisites

> In order to access the EGI DataHub data you need, first of all, to have
> an [EGI Check-in](../../check-in) account, if you don't have an EGI
> Check-in account you can sign up [here](../../check-in/signup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to access the EGI DataHub data you need an
[EGI Check-in](../../check-in) account. If you don't have one yet
you can [Sign up for an EGI account](../../check-in/signup).
```

## Oneclient installation

> The installation of oneclient package is currently supported for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation of `oneclient` package is currently supported for:
```

> - Ubuntu Bionic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Bionic Beaver)
```

- Centos 7

Work to support more recent versions of Operating Systems is ongoing, and alternatively
a docker based installation is also provided.

### Oneclient installation via packages

> Use the following command in order to install the oneclient package in a supported OS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command in order to install the `oneclient` package in a supported OS:
```

```shell

> curl -sS http://get.onedata.org/oneclient.sh | bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl -sS http://get.onedata.org/oneclient.sh | bash
```

```

This will also install the needed dependencies.

### Oneclient installation via docker

In order to use the Dockerized version of oneclient (provided that you
have docker installed), you can run the following  command:

```shell

> docker run -it --privileged -v $PWD:/mnt/src --entrypoint bash onedata/oneclient:20.02.15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ docker run -it --privileged -v $PWD:/mnt/src --entrypoint bash onedata/oneclient:20.02.15
```

Reviewer: While it may be handy for usage, I'm usually not fond of mixing short and long versions of options in documentation, and using only the long versions make the command more clear, something like below:
```shell
$ docker run --interactive --tty --privileged \
  --volume $PWD:/mnt/src \
  --entrypoint bash \
  onedata/oneclient:20.02.15
```

```

> This command will also expose a local folder to the container to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will also expose the current folder to the container (as `/mnt/src`) to
```

ease the transfer of data.

## Getting the token to access data

In order to access data stored in EGI DataHub via oneclient,

> you need to acquire a token for authorisation. You can check
> [our specific documentation](../../datahub/api/#getting-an-api-access-token).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you need to [get an API access token](../../datahub/api/#getting-an-api-access-token).
```

## Using oneclient

Once you have acquired a token valid for oneclient you can configure it
on the environment as follows:

```shell

> export ONECLIENT_ACCESS_TOKEN=<ACCESS_TOKEN_FROM_ONEZONE>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export ONECLIENT_ACCESS_TOKEN=<ACCESS_TOKEN_FROM_ONEZONE>
```

```

> Also configure in the environment the provider you would like to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must also configure in the environment the provider you would like to
```

connect to. The EGI DataHub offers a `PLAYGROUND` space hosted by
the Oneprovider `plg-cyfronet-01.datahub.egi.eu` which is accessible
for testing by anyone with a valid EGI Check-in account.

Therefore the access to that particular space can be configured as
follows:

```shell

> export ONECLIENT_PROVIDER_HOST=plg-cyfronet-01.datahub.egi.eu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export ONECLIENT_PROVIDER_HOST=plg-cyfronet-01.datahub.egi.eu
```

```

Now in order to access data from a local folder you need to run
the following commands:

```shell

> mkdir /tmp/space
> oneclient /tmp/space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ mkdir /tmp/space
$ oneclient /tmp/space
```

```

and then all usual file and folder operations (POSIX) will be available:

```shell

> root@222d3ceb86df:/tmp/space# ls -l

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ root@222d3ceb86df:/tmp/space# ls -l
```

total 0

drwxrwxr-x 1 root    root    0 Jan 28 16:56  PLAYGROUND
```

Creating a file into the folder will push it to the Oneprovider and
it will be accessible in the web interface and from other providers
supporting the space.

By using the default settings you can see all the spaces you have
access to, but it will also be possible to specify a specific space
to access using the option `--space <space>`.

Oneclient offers a lot of other options for configuration

> (e.g. Buffer size, direct I/O, etc) which are listed when you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g. buffer size, direct I/O, etc) which are listed when you
```

---
title: "Virtual machine with DataHub access"
linkTitle: "VM with DataHub access"
type: docs
weight: 30
draft: false
description: >
  Use data in EGI DataHub from a virtual machine
---

## Overview

This tutorial describes the access to EGI DataHub spaces from a virtual
machine. In the following paragraphs you will learn how to:

- install the oneclient component
- configure access to an EGI DataHub Oneprovider via oneclient

in order to access data remotely stored in EGI DataHub via POSIX

## Prerequisites

In order to access the EGI DataHub data you need, first of all, to have
an [EGI Check-in](../../check-in) account, if you don't have an EGI
Checkin account you can sign up [here](../../check-in/signup)

## Oneclient installation

The installation of oneclient package is currently supported for:

- Ubuntu Bionic
- Centos 7

> Work to support more recent OSs version is ongoing, and alternatively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work to support more recent versions of Operating Systems is ongoing, and alternatively
```

a docker based installation is also provided.

### Oneclient installation via packages

In order to install the oneclient package in a supported OS, just use
the  following command:

```shell
curl -sS http://get.onedata.org/oneclient.sh | bash
```

which will also install the needed dependencies.

### Oneclient installation via docker

In order to use the Dockerized version of oneclient (provided that you
have docker installed), you can run the following  command:

```shell
docker run -it --privileged -v $PWD:/mnt/src --entrypoint bash onedata/oneclient:20.02.15
```

> This command will also expose a local folder to the container so to
> ease the transfer of data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command will also expose a local folder to the container to
ease the transfer of data.
```

## Getting the token to access data

In order to access data stored in EGI DataHub via oneclient,

> you need to acquire a token for authorization. You can check

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you need to acquire a token for authorisation. You can check
```

> [here](../../datahub/api/#getting-an-api-access-token) our
> specific documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[ our specific documentation](../../datahub/api/#getting-an-api-access-token).
```

## Using oneclient

Once you have acquired a token valid for oneclient you can configure it
on the environment as follows:

```shell
export ONECLIENT_ACCESS_TOKEN=<ACCESS_TOKEN_FROM_ONEZONE>
```

> and configure in the environment also the provider you would like to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also configure in the environment the provider you would like to
```

connect to. The EGI DataHub offers a `PLAYGROUND` space hosted by
the Oneprovider `plg-cyfronet-01.datahub.egi.eu` which is accessible
for testing by anyone with a valid EGI Check-in account.

Therefore the access to that particular space can be configured as
follows:

```shell
export ONECLIENT_PROVIDER_HOST=plg-cyfronet-01.datahub.egi.eu
```

> Now in order to access data from a local folder you just need to run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now in order to access data from a local folder you need to run
```

> the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the following commands:
```

```shell
mkdir /tmp/space
oneclient /tmp/space
```

> and then all POSIX operations will be available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and then all usual file and folder operations (POSIX) will be available:
```

```shell
root@222d3ceb86df:/tmp/space# ls -l
total 0

drwxrwxr-x 1 root    root    0 Jan 28 16:56  PLAYGROUND
```

Creating a file into the folder will push it to the Oneprovider and
it will be accessible in the web interface and from other providers
supporting the space.

By using the default settings you can see all the spaces you have

> access to, but it will be possible also to specify a specific space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
access to, but it will also be possible to specify a specific space
```

> to access using the option _--space `space`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to access using the option `--space <space>`.
```

Oneclient offers a lot of other options for configuration
(e.g. Buffer size, direct I/O, etc) which are listed when you

> type the **_oneclient_** command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
type the `oneclient` command without any argument.
```
